You are listening to a message from First Baptist Church, Wichita Falls.
For more information about First Baptist, click the link in the show notes or go to fbcwf.org.
Today's message comes from Senior Pastor Dr. Bob McCartney.
Merry Christmas and I'm so glad that you're here to be a part of this Christmas Eve service.
I want to welcome those of you at our Shepherd campus, at our West campus.
We are so glad that you're
beginning your Christmas celebration for your family and keeping Christ right in the very center of it.
And so we're not going to be here for a long time, but I hope this time is meaningful for you.
I saw a quick news story the other day about a couple of members of the San Antonio Spurs basketball team.
a couple of those guys put on their uniforms.
Now it wasn't their Spurs uniforms.
One of them put on a Santa suit and the other put on an elf suit.
Julian, Champagne and Harrison Ingram and they went out and delivered some presents.
Now the great thing about this was that this wasn't one of those organized things that the Spurs made them do or some corporation paid them to do.
They just went out on their own.
And they had found some people who were struggling just a little bit and they took basketballs, they took toys, they took shoes.
Of course they took some spurs tickets and they even had some dolls and little girl presents too.
And one particular mom who was responding to this generous gift and just responding that said, you know, things are so hard for me right now.
I mean, the economy, everything's high, right?
Inflation stuff.
And she said,
Things are so hard for me right now.
This couldn't have happened at a better time.
You know, sometimes in life it's not what you do, it's when you do it.
Timing can mean everything.
And that is true of the very first Christmas.
The very first Christmas happened in God's perfect sovereign timing.
The first Christmas was not spontaneous.
It wasn't spur of the moment.
It wasn't happenstance.
The first Christmas was a sovereign move of God in the history of redemption.
Now, through the month of December, we've talked a little bit about what Christmas means.
We talked about the meaning of Christmas, that Christmas is God coming in human form as Emmanuel, as God with us.
And that's called the incarnation.
We also talked about the mission of Christmas.
Jesus said, I have come to seek and to save the lost.
That was His own words about why He came and what Christmas is really ultimately all about.
We talked about the message of Christmas in that
This good news of great joy, which is for all people has to be shared with all people.
We need to go and tell.
We need to invite people.
We need to express what God has done in our lives.
And we need to share His love with those around us.
And now on December 24th, Christmas Eve, we come to the moment of Christmas.
The moment of Christmas is filled with anticipation.
Now look, every Christmas,
Especially when your little is filled with anticipation I mean you're excited about those boxes with ribbons and bows and and you can't wait to see what's inside And there's that one special gift maybe that you asked for and you really hope that it's in that box I mean Christmas is filled with anticipation and that is the truth about the spiritual meaning of Christmas as well because there came a moment of
When as the apostle Paul says in Galatians chapter four, that God saw that everything was perfect.
It was the right time for Christmas.
And he says in Galatians chapter four, verse four, but when the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, so that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption
as sons.
Now I want to talk about this really briefly, but there are some really just meaningful moments in those few words.
First of all, the Bible says that Christmas was God's perfect plan.
Sending His Son into the world was always His perfect plan and God had sovereignly arranged history for that very first Christmas to take place.
When Joseph and Mary arrive in Bethlehem, they are fulfilling prophecy that this baby, this Messiah would be born in the city of David, which is Bethlehem.
And Joseph was from the line of David, if you'd traced his heritage all the way back in genealogy.
And even everything about it begins to point to this moment that prophecies are fulfilled.
And God had orchestrated all of this, but more than that, God had orchestrated all of history for this moment.
that in the fullness of time, that this was the right moment.
When we see the word time, most of the time I think about time being seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, years, centuries.
We think in terms of the finite kind of time, but that's not the word that's used here.
The word that's used here is kairos, and it's less about time, it's more about timing.
the fullness of time.
The word fullness is the word pluroma in the language of the New Testament and the Koine Greek that the New Testament was written in.
And pluroma was a word used by farmers.
When they would plant a crop they would watch it grow and they would watch that wheat begin to turn golden and they would watch it turn all that golden brown and they would know that that was the right time to harvest the wheat.
You didn't say, okay, it's been 90 days, so we're gonna harvest the wheat.
You harvested it when it's ripe.
And what Paul is saying is that at the moment that was ripe in history, God sent forth his son.
God is sovereign over history.
Let me give you just a little background on this that's really important.
350 years before the birth of Jesus, a guy named Alexander, who would become known as Alexander the Great, swept with his Greek armies across the known world.
He conquered Europe, the Middle East and Northern Africa.
He died only 12 years into his campaign to rule the world.
And while his empire didn't last, his influence did because everywhere he went, he made sure people did one thing.
There was one thing that he demanded of people.
You have to learn my language, Greek.
And so Greek became a common language of the world.
When the New Testament was written, it was written in Greek and therefore when it was sent out into churches, those letters were sent out.
They were in a language that everybody could understand and didn't even have to be translated.
Not only that, but the Romans then took over.
And the Romans had a system of roads that they had built.
Now those roads were actually built for their armies to advance, and when they heard there was a trouble spot or an uprising somewhere, they would send their army to put down the uprising.
But those roads became the means of transportation for Christian missionaries and disciples to take the gospel into every city of Europe in the Middle East and Northern Africa, and for the gospel to spread on those roads.
And not only that, but when the Jewish temple was destroyed,
And the Jewish people were dispersed in what is known as the exile.
They developed a system of synagogues.
Now synagogues is not a temple.
They didn't offer sacrifices there.
But there was one in every city in town where there was a Jewish population.
They would open the scrolls of the Old Testament.
They would study.
They would read.
They would worship.
And when Christian missionaries went into those places,
They would go to the synagogues and proclaim, Jesus is the fulfillment of all those prophecies you've been reading for all these years.
Everything was set in motion.
God had brought it to a perfect moment in his sovereignty to say, this is the ripe moment.
This is the moment to send my son into the world.
Christmas is about a sovereign move of God who is in control.
And I just want to say this to you.
are coming here, you're worshiping, you're going to go to a family gathering, but it may feel like your life is anything but in control.
It may feel like your life is out of control.
I just want to assure you there is a God who has orchestrated history.
He is in control.
Surrender and submit your life to Him.
Secondly, not only that, but Christmas isn't just part of God's perfect plan.
Christmas is actually God launching a rescue mission.
God sent forth his son, born of a woman born under the law, so that he might redeem those who were under the law.
God sent forth his son.
You see, Christmas is the actual teaching is the incarnation.
That God the son, without ceasing to be God, became fully human.
And God sent
His divine Son into the world.
Fully God, but born of a virgin.
In other words, fully human.
He was fully God and fully human.
Fully God in the sense that He is eternally God the Son.
Fully human so that He could become the perfect sacrifice for our sins.
God can't die, but a human being can.
And so Jesus came into this world not only as God, but as a fully human man
in order that He could take your sin and mine to redeem us.
Redemption is the total message of the New Testament.
It's a message of the whole Bible.
Since Adam and Eve sinned and fell in the Garden of Eden and all of us were plunged into a world that now is a world of cruelty and brutality and dishonor and disgrace, God sent His Son into this world to live among us
so that he could pay the price for our sins.
That's what redemption means.
Redemption means to pay a price.
All of us have a sin debt.
And that debt separates us from God.
Someone has to pay a debt.
Debt doesn't just disappear.
You hear people talking about, oh, somebody will write it off.
That just means that the stockholders of that company might wind up paying your debt.
Sin is a debt, and debt doesn't just disappear, it must be paid.
Now here's the problem.
You and I can't pay our sin debt.
Only a perfect sacrifice can do that.
And so God sent God the Son into this world born of a virgin to become fully human so that as a perfect sacrifice he could take your sin debt.
The Bible says he who knew no sin became sin.
He took your sin debt and he died to it.
So that you could become the righteousness of God in him.
His redemptive mission is God's rescue mission.
This past summer, we watched with horror as those floodwaters rose in the Guadalupe River and so many people tragically died in that horrible flooding.
But there was one great story that came out of that.
It was the story of a Coast Guard rescue diver.
His name is Petty Officer Scott Ruskin.
Scott Ruskin
had just graduated from rescue swimmer school and he was sent by the Coast Guard on that mission to rescue people.
He jumped into the water and he started rescuing people.
By the time it was over, Scott Ruskin had rescued 165 people in less than 24 hours.
But you see, he could only rescue them when he jumped in the water with them.
And what God did in the person of Jesus Christ
is he came into our situation.
He came into our broken world.
He came into our world of oppression.
He came into our world that is filled with cruelty and brutality.
And he walked among us.
He became one of us so that he could die for us.
That is the beauty of Christmas.
The beauty of Christmas is in the cruelty of Christmas.
That those chubby little hands and feet that Mary held would one day bear nails.
to pay the price for your sins in mind.
But there's a purpose of Christmas.
The purpose of Christmas is, yes, that your sins could be forgiven.
But it's more than that.
There's better news than that.
You say, what could be better than that?
My sins could be forgiven.
Here's what Paul says.
So that we might receive the adoption as sons to be brought into God's family.
Jesus came to forgive you.
Yes, out of His deep love for you.
God demonstrates His great love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
But it's more than that.
It's so that we could be brought into a family.
He came to adopt us as sons.
Now, ladies, don't be offended by that.
In the Roman Empire, by law, only a son could receive an inheritance.
And so here's the good news.
that regardless of gender when you come to faith in Christ, you become, you receive the adoption like a son, and you receive a full inheritance.
Adoption means a new name, a new standing, a new inheritance, and a new home.
Christmas is not God just tolerating us.
Christmas is God welcoming us home.
This past Monday in Jacksonville, Florida, there was a court proceeding.
Nineteen children from the ages of one to 17 received new families.
The judge agreed to do it on the 22nd of December so that those children could be with their forever families on Christmas.
Nineteen of them.
adopted, brought into a family.
One of those was 14-year-old Wyatt Mann.
Wyatt actually came to the attention of a deputy sheriff.
And his name was, is rather, West Camp.
And deputy camp had been dispatched on more than one occasion.
And he saw the place
that Wyatt lived and the circumstances that he lived under.
And he was one of the deputies that eventually got him to child protective services and eventually got him into the foster care system.
And he and his wife, Emily, decided we want to give Wyatt a home.
And so he had been in the foster care system then for many years.
Between six months and 11 months, he would stay in some home and then they'd move him off to somewhere else.
When the court proceeding was going on for Wyatt to be adopted, the judge looked at him and said, son, do you know what this means?
And Wyatt responded to the judge by saying, sir, does it mean I don't have to leave anymore?
Yeah.
It means you never have to leave.
Once you are adopted into this family of faith, the family of God, you're in forever family.
You are in a forever family.
And that's why God set His Son on this mission of redemption and rescue because He loves you and He wants you to be a part of His forever family.
That is what Christmas is ultimately all about.
It is the launching of the rescue mission that brings you into God's family.
And the Bible simply says this, for all who call on the name of the Lord will be saved, will be rescued.
If you've never trusted Jesus, what better day than today to receive His gift of eternal life?
He offers it to you freely because He paid for it.
Make no mistake, every president under that tree, somebody paid for it.
Every gift, somebody paid for it.
Jesus paid for your gift of eternal life.
And He offers it to you freely because He paid.
You've been listening to a message from First Baptist Church, which is all false.
For more information about First Baptist, including gathering times and locations, click the link in the show notes or go to fbcwf.org.
We'll see you next week.